# Main Language and Framework for Front-end: TypeScript and React

## Context and Problem Statement

- As a single-page/dashboard web app, the choice of a front-end framework can be obvious: React. But choosing between JavaScript and TypeScript may not be so obvious. At first, JavaScript may appear the better choice due to its simplicity, however, as we discuss below, TypeScript is more suitable from a security perspective.
- As a web app which will be accessing a piece of physical hardware (telescope + mount + potentially camera), security is paramount. Without security, the app could be used to do bad things: break a telescope and/or mount if no physical safeguards are in place, slew the telescope fast and hurt someone, etc.
  - Another point to consider security-wise is that the app will be written by students/soon-to-be graduates, rather than a veteran web developer. As a result, the likelihood of simple mistakes which result in security vulnerabilities is higher. TypeScript prevents many of these mistakes

## Considered Options

Language:
* JavaScript
* TypeScript

Framework:
* Vanilla JS/TS
* React
* Preact
* Vue

## Decision Outcome

Chosen option (Language): TypeScript, because security is of paramount importance in this web app, and it will be easier to write secure, error-free code in TypeScript than in JavaScript, especially for students. 

Chosen option (Framework): React, because it is more suitable for our web app (lots of features in a single dashboard), and our front-end engineer has some experience with React, and will thus be able to do more work in the limited time available. Learning a new framework will likely take a significant amount of time for little or no return.

### Consequences

* Good, because TypeScript and React are both well-known and well-supported, as well as being almost industry standard for web apps like the one we are working on. This will ensure that our app will be easy to maintain and extend.
* Good, because we will be able to more easily write secure, error-free code in TypeScript than in JavaScript.
* Bad, because TypeScript takes more time to write than JavaScript.
* Bad, because our front-end engineer mostly has experience with JavaScript, and only knows the basics of TypeScript.